# Nikola_BellaBeat_Project

Author: Nikola Nikolic 

Date: 4/06/2023

[Tableu Dashboard]

This Project will follow the six step data analysis process: 
### ❓ [Ask](#1-ask)
### 💻 [Prepare](#2-prepare)
### 🛠 [Process](#3-process)
### 📊 [Analyze](#4-analyze)
### 📋 [Share](#5-share)
### 🧗‍♀️ [Act](#6-act)

## Scenario
According to a Forbes report, Bellabeat, a wellness tech company, was established in 2013 by Sandro Mur, Urška Sršen, and Lovepreet Singh (Robter, 2020). While its headquarters are in San Francisco, the company has a global presence with offices in London, Hong Kong, and Zagreb. Bellabeat specializes in women's health and wellness, offering a range of wearable and non-wearable technologies. Their brand is built upon four core principles: smart insights, women-centric approach, holistic well-being, and body positivity. Their products aim to incorporate various metrics related to a woman's menstrual cycle. The company's website states that Bellabeat helps users synchronize with their natural cycle and gain a deeper understanding of their well-being by tracking bio-responses and aligning the data with their hormonal cycle, enabling them to comprehend their emotional and physical states better.

## 1. Ask
1.1  Business Task
Uilizing the Fitbit Fitness Tracker Data, identify some trends in smart device usage, how these trends can be applied to Bellabeat’s customers and how they can help influence Bellabeat’s marketing strategy.

1.2 Stakeholders
Urška Sršen – Bellabeat’s cofounder and Chief Creative Officer
Sando Mur – Bellabeat’s cofounder
Bellabeat’s marketing analytics team

## 2. Prepare 
2.1 Data Used
The data source used for this case study is FitBit Fitness Tracker Data. This dataset was downloaded from Kaggle where it was uploaded by Möbius.

2.2 Accessability and Usage of Data 
The dataset was published by Möbius to Kaggle.com under the CC0: Public Domain Creative Common License – waiving all rights to the work and allowing for the dataset to be copies, modified, distributed and performed without asking for permission: https://zenodo.org/record/53894#.YMoUpnVKiP9 

2.3 Data Summary 
According to the dataset information submitted on Zenodo.org,"this dataset was generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03.12.2016 – 05.12.2016.Thirty eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring." Additionally, "Variation between output represents use of different types of Fitbit trackers and individual tracking behaviors". 

2.4 Data Organisation 
Eighteen datasets were downloaded from the FitBit Fitness Tracker Data. The datasets downloaded in .csv file format and included long and wide formats. The datasets chosen for analysis below included a user count of 33 participants over a 31 day period of time.

2.5 Data Limitations and Integrity 
The FitBit Fitness Tracker Data was collected in 2016 making the datasets outdated for current trend analysis. Additionally, while the data initially states a time range of 03-12-2016 to 05-12-2016, after data verification, the data collected was only during a 31 day period (04-12-2016 to 05-12-2016). Since the data only included instances over a 31 day period, the timeframe for a more insightful analysis is realitively small.

Lastly, the sample size itself could create a sample bias. While a sample size of 33 will hold up within the CLT theorm, a larger sample size will be more representative of the population and would increase the confidence interval. Additionally, since there were no demographic information collected it will be hard to see if we have a true representation of a national or global population. This lack of demographic information will also limit recommendations on the target audience (including gender, location, age and job status) and where to market to them. Considering that Bellabeat is primarily targeted to women and individuals who menstruate, having demographics would have bolstered any recommendations after analysis.

## 3. Process
3.1 Datasets Selected 
  - Daily_Activity_Merged
  - Daily_Sleep_Merged
  - Hourly_Steps_Merged
  - Hourly_Intensity_Merged
  - Hourly_Calories_Merged
  - Weight_Log_Merged

3.2 Cleaning Data Via Google Sheets
 Each dataset was cleaned using Google Sheets. The following steps were taken within each dataset:
  - Sorted and filtered data by Id to obtain how many unique users there were within the dataset.
  - Checked for duplicate data using the 'Remove Duplicates' tool in Google sheets 
  - Formatted date data into MM/DD/YY date format
  - Formatted all numerical data into Number format with either no decimals or up to 2 decimials.
  - Sorted by date to find the first and last date of the dataset (this is what first indicated only a 31-day period of activity was captured).
  - Separated Date and Hour into two columns when needed for later analysis. Utilized Left() function as well as Right() function to split.
  - Formatted any time data into 00:00:00 format for consistency.
  - Checked Id entries and other columns for LEN to make sure the data was correct and uniform in length
  - Used Conditional Formatting to spot any errors that didn't equal to what I had specified 
  - Used the 'Hide' setting to remove unnecessary columns that contained irrelevant information 

After the cleaning process was finished, only 3 rows of duplicate information was found within the Daily_Sleep_Merged file. These were removed before analysis.

## 4. Analyze

4.1 SQL Dataset Upload 
Uploaded the following clean data sets:

  - dailyActivity_merged
  - sleepDay_merged
  - hourlyCalroie_merged
  - hourlyIntensity_merged
  - hourlySteps_merged
  - weightLogInfo_merged

4.2 User Verification
Checked for the number of participants by counting the number of distinct Id's in each dataset.
```
SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT Id) AS Total_Id
FROM `eighth-breaker-387002.CS2_bellabeat.Daily_Activity_Merged`
```

I repeated the SQL query above with each dataset (changing the FROM clause each time) and recieved these results:

Daily_Activity_Merged - 33
Daily_Sleep_Merged - 24
Hourly_Calorie_Merged - 33
Hourly_Intensity_Merged - 33
Hourly_Steps_Merged - 33
Weight_Log_Merged - 8

The Weight Log dataset did not include enough data to move forward with analysis. The dataset will not be used.

4.3 User Insights 
Now I wanted to  breakdown the users by how much they wore their FitBit Fitness Tracker. I created three user types:

Active User - wore their tracker for 21-31 days
Moderate User - wore their tracker for 11-20 days
Light User - wore their tracker for 1 to 10 days

```
SELECT Id,
COUNT(Id) AS Total_Logged_Uses,
CASE
WHEN COUNT(Id) BETWEEN 21 AND 31 THEN 'Active User'
WHEN COUNT(Id) BETWEEN 11 and 20 THEN 'Moderate User'
WHEN COUNT(Id) BETWEEN 1 and 10 THEN 'Light User'
WHEN COUNT(Id) = 0 THEN 'Inactive User'
END Fitbit_Usage_Type
FROM `eighth-breaker-387002.CS2_bellabeat.Daily_Activity_Merged`
GROUP BY Id
```


